---
title: 'Engagement session: why and how to plan it before your wedding?'
date: 'January 16, 2025'
category: 'article'
gridImage: '/blog-posts/article-engagement-session/blog-jeremydan-wedding-photography-article-012-optimized.webp'
coverImage: '/blog-posts/article-engagement-session/blog-jeremydan-wedding-photography-article-001-optimized.webp'
excerpt:
  'Are you getting married? What a wonderful decision! You’re probably planning
  your big day, but have you thought about an engagement session? I always
  recommend this unique experience to my future brides and grooms. But what is
  an engagement session, and why should you plan it before the wedding? Let’s
  find out.'
---

<BlogTitle level={2}>What is an Engagement Session?</BlogTitle>

<BlogImage
  src='/blog-posts/article-engagement-session/blog-jeremydan-wedding-photography-article-002-optimized.webp'
  alt='Description of your image'
/>

An engagement photo session is a couple's photo session before your wedding. It
allows you to capture your complicity and create wonderful memories before the
big day. In contrast to the pressure of the wedding, these photos take place in
a relaxed atmosphere, often in a venue that's close to your heart.

During this session, you can explore different poses and experiment with varied
angles, while enjoying yourself. The laughter, the complicity, and the soft
gestures are highlighted to create clichés that tell your story as a real
couple. Plus, these photos can be used for your fair share, your wedding website
or even as decoration at your reception.

In short, this is the ideal moment to capture the love you share every day.

<BlogTitle level={2}>
  Why to plan an Engagement Session before your wedding?
</BlogTitle>

<BlogImage
  src='/blog-posts/article-engagement-session/blog-jeremydan-wedding-photography-article-003-optimized.webp'
  alt='Description of your image'
/>

If you're not comfortable in front of a camera, this is the ideal time to
familiarize yourself with your photographer and the way he or she works. This
will create a mutual trust that will make all the difference on the wedding day.
By taking the time to talk with your photographer, you can also share your
expectations and ideas about the photos you want. Don't hesitate to show him
examples of images you like, to help him understand your vision. This
pre-wedding session can be an excellent opportunity to get used to being
photographed. This will help you feel more natural and relaxed on the big day.
During this session, try out different poses and angles, so you can see what
works best for you.

Remember that your photographer is there for you, to capture the authentic
moments and emotions of your day. Don't forget to enjoy each moment and have
fun, because these memories will stay etched forever. By establishing a good
relationship with your photographer, you not only create beautiful photos, but
also ensure a memorable experience.

<BlogTwoColImg
  images={{
    left: {
      src: '/blog-posts/article-engagement-session/blog-jeremydan-wedding-photography-article-004-optimized.webp',
      alt: 'Description of left image'
    },
    right: {
      src: '/blog-posts/article-engagement-session/blog-jeremydan-wedding-photography-article-005-optimized.webp',
      alt: 'Description of right image'
    }
  }}
/>

<BlogTitle level={2}>Which location to choose for this photo shoot?</BlogTitle>

The best advice I can give you is to choose an area that resonates with your
story.

<BlogTitle level={3}>You love nature?</BlogTitle>

The choice is endless! The parks, with their formal gardens, tall trees and wide
avenues, offer majestic backdrops for romantic photos. The surrounding forests,
with their shady paths and peaceful clearings, add a touch of serenity. Lakes or
rivers, meanwhile, can add an aquatic element, ideal for reflections and a
soothing ambience. Why not a large wheat field if agriculture is your passion!

<BlogTitle level={3}>You are urban in your heart ?</BlogTitle>

Urban scenes offer an incredible diversity for your photos. Whether in the
smaller, more picturesque streets of your city, with their colored facades and
artisinal shops, or in more modern districts with clean lines and graffiti
artwork, each place tells a unique story. A market, a historic square, or even a
building that evokes memories can become the perfect backdrop.

<BlogTitle level={3}>More of a cozy vibe?</BlogTitle>

If you love cozy atmospheres, choose a cafe where you enjoy spending time
together. This adds a personal touch and relaxed feel to your photos. You can
also opt for an apartment or interior space that you feel at home, with
decoration items or elements that remind you of your daily life. These intimate
spaces create a cozy, authentic atmosphere, perfect for cliché-like photos.

<BlogTitle level={3}>Any particular place in mind?</BlogTitle>

Perhaps the place where you first met, the place where you said “I do”, or even
a place that symbolizes a milestone in your relationship. Every detail counts to
make your photos even more unique.

Consider natural light, which plays an essential role in the quality quality of
your photos. In the morning or late afternoon, the soft golden light can make
your shots even more beautiful. And don't forget to consider the seasons: in
spring, flowers in full bloom add an explosion of color, while in autumn, golden
leaves create a romantic atmosphere.

Finally, don't hesitate to include personal elements in your session, such as
objects that are close to your heart or clothes that represent you. This will
make your photos even more unique and memorable. Whatever you choose, the
important thing is that it reflects your personality and emotions.

<BlogThreeColImg
  images={{
    left: {
      src: '/blog-posts/article-engagement-session/blog-jeremydan-wedding-photography-article-006-optimized.webp',
      alt: 'Description of left image'
    },
    middle: {
      src: '/blog-posts/article-engagement-session/blog-jeremydan-wedding-photography-article-007-optimized.webp',
      alt: 'Description of middle image'
    },
    right: {
      src: '/blog-posts/article-engagement-session/blog-jeremydan-wedding-photography-article-008-optimized.webp',
      alt: 'Description of right image'
    }
  }}
/>

<BlogTitle level={2}>How and when to plan your session?</BlogTitle>

Planning an engagement session requires a lot of thought to ensure it is perfect
for your needs and desires.

<BlogTitle level={3}>Date</BlogTitle>

Ideally, schedule this session a few months before your wedding. This will give
you time to use the photos for your wedding invitations or your wedding website.
Think about the season too: every time of year offers unique atmospheres, from
spring flowers to the warm colors of autumn.

<BlogTitle level={3}>Clothing</BlogTitle>

Opt for clothing that makes you feel comfortable and reflects your style. It's
not more complicated than that. If you love changing, then dress up. You can
even bring a replacement outfit to vary the atmosphere!

Finally, take the time to talk to your photographer. Together, you can choose a
location that tells your story and plan the details for a seamless, enjoyable
session. This experience can also be the perfect opportunity to strengthen your
commitment and prepare you to be photographed on your big day. And most
importantly, have fun: this is the perfect time to celebrate your love!

<BlogTwoColImg
  images={{
    left: {
      src: '/blog-posts/article-engagement-session/blog-jeremydan-wedding-photography-article-009-optimized.webp',
      alt: 'Description of left image'
    },
    right: {
      src: '/blog-posts/article-engagement-session/blog-jeremydan-wedding-photography-article-010-optimized.webp',
      alt: 'Description of right image'
    }
  }}
/>

<BlogTitle level={2}>What Can You Expect from an Engagement Session?</BlogTitle>

Photos of your love story, moments of complicity, and natural shots that reveal
your love. It's also a way to discover the importance of capturing genuine,
authentic moments, far from clichés.

<BlogTitle level={2}>Conclusion</BlogTitle>

<BlogImage
  src='/blog-posts/article-engagement-session/blog-jeremydan-wedding-photography-article-011-optimized.webp'
  alt='Description of your image'
/>

An engagement session is much more than just a series of photos. It's a unique
experience that lets you celebrate your love in a setting that's just like you.
Whether you opt for a romantic park, a vibrant city street, a cozy venue or a
place full of memories, every choice will contribute to making these shots
unforgettable. By carefully planning the date, selecting the right outfits and
collaborating with your photographer, you can not only create precious memories,
but also use these photos for your invitations or other elements of your
wedding. Beyond the images, this session is a great opportunity to strengthen
your complicity and prepare you to live your big day with serenity and
confidence.

If you're looking for a photographer for your wedding or engagement session in
Sceaux or France, I'd be happy to meet you. But don't forget the most important
thing: be yourself, the photographer takes care of the rest.

<BlogButton className='mt-8' href='/contact'>
  Let's meet!
</BlogButton>
